```
                   __    _  _____ ____ __ __   ___   ___
                  /  \ ,' \/_  _// __// // /  / _/ ,' _/
                 / o |/ o | / / / _/ / // /_ / _/ _\ `.
                /__,' |_,' /_/ /_/  /_//___//___//___,'
```

# Contents

Application-specific dotfiles are self-descriptive. Other packages are

- `arch`: Arch linux specific config files
- `autostart`: Desktop files meant to autostart desktop apps
- `core`: Mainly shell and environment-agnostic files, such as the profile and
    aliases
- `scripts`: Either convenience utilities or scripts used by by other apps
- `theme`: Anything related to theming, ricing or general look-and-feel:w

# Install

[GNU Stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/) is used to symlink the dotfiles
to this repository.

Once the repository is cloned, it can be used to install any package:

```bash
# Dry run
stow -nvt $HOME package ...

# If everything OK, apply
stow -vt $HOME package ...

# If there are existing files you want to overwrite with a symlink, you can
# adopt them and then reset the repo.
# - THE ORIGINAL DOTFILES WILL BE LOST
# - ANY UNCOMMITED CHANGES WILL BE LOST TOO
stow -vt $HOME --adopt package ...
git reset --hard HEAD
```

# Package information

NOTE: Used Arch packages are specified using (`this-format`)

## .profile

`~/.profile` is meant to be read by any shell, mainly **bash** (if no `.bash_profile` present) or **zsh** (only reads `.zprofile`, so it must be sourced manually). Both
also load their respective rc.

The profile is used to set up environment variables, most notably to:

- add custom **PATH** locations for local programs and scripts
- workarounds for apps that don't follow the
    [**XDG Base Directories**](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/XDG_Base_Directory)
    by default
- set **default programs**

## Theming and look-and-feel

The cursor, file icons, and GTK2 and GTK 3 config is generated by [**LXAppearance**](https://github.com/lxde/lxappearance)
(`lxappearance`).

### Cursor

The [**Capitaine**](https://github.com/keeferrourke/capitaine-cursors) cursor
(`capitaine-cursors`) is used in its light variant.

NOTE: LXAppearance generates it's configuration in `~/.icons`, while
I'm using `~/.local/share/icons`.

### File icons

The [**Papirus**](https://github.com/PapirusDevelopmentTeam/papirus-icon-theme) icon
theme is used (`papirus-icon-theme`).


### GTK

GTK apps use the default Adwaita theme (`gnome-themes-extra`).

The GTK2 rc is in a custom location as set in the profile. LXAppearance seems to
respect this currently but older versions may not.

Some GTK4 apps rely on **libadwaita**, which is a pain in the ass to theme.
And when not using a DE like GNOME, dark mode won't work unless the **GTK
portal** (`xdg-desktop-portal-gtk`) is specified as the default in `~/.config/xdg-desktop-portal/portals.conf`.

### Qt

Currently it is configured to use Breeze (`breeze`).

Without a DE, Qt apps need another QPA to actually respect themes such as
`qt6ct` (or `qt6ct-kde` for proper dark theme support for KDE apps), and to
export `QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME="qt6ct` in `.profile`.

### Dircolors

Custom `ls` colors are sourced from `~/.config/dircolors/dircolors` to match
the prompt colors.

### Xresources

Xresources also configures the screen DPI to 120 (a 125% increase from the base 96 DPI).